---
title: "Converting Benchmark Results to Spreadsheets"
icon: "material/play-outline"
---

The `conv` subcommand allows you to convert results generated by `btool eval` into an ODS
spreadsheet, which can be opened with LibreOffice, OpenOffice, or Excel.

To convert your benchmark results to a spreadsheet, use the following command:

```bash
btool conv benchmark-results.xml -m "time:t,choices" -o results.ods
```

The `-m` option specifies which measures to include in the table. Available
measures depend on the [result parser] used during evaluation. Each measure can
optionally include a formatting argument after a `:`. Currently, the supported
formatting options are `t` and `to`. Both highlight best and worst values for
float measures. Use `t` for most measures, and `to` for float measures
representing booleans, such as `timeout`.

## Spreadsheet Generation

When generating a spreadsheet in ODS format, two sheets are created:

1. **Instance Sheet**
    - The instance sheet lists all runs for each benchmark instance (rows) and
    their results for the selected measures, grouped by system/setting (columns).
    - A summary for each run is included, showing the minimum, maximum, and
    median values for each float measure.
    - Each column with float measures also has a summary, including the sum,
    average, standard deviation, distance from the minimum, and counts of best,
    better, worse, and worst values.
2. **Class Sheet**
    - The class sheet summarizes all runs for each benchmark class, enabling
    comparisons between classes.

!!! info
    All summaries are written as formulas in the ODS file. The calculated
    values are also accessible via the *content* attribute of the *Sheet*
    object.

    Both the ODS representation and the actual content are stored in [pandas]
    DataFrames for easier handling and future modifications.

[result parser]: ../../reference/resultparser.md
[pandas]: https://pandas.pydata.org/
